.TH PPTX-BUILDER 1 "February 2026" "Version 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pptx\-builder \- convert PDFs and images to PowerPoint presentations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pptx-builder
[\fB\-i\fR \fIPATH\fR ...]
[\fB\-o\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR]
[\fB\-\-dpi\fR \fIDPI\fR]
[\fB\-\-quiet\fR]
[\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pptx-builder
converts PDF documents and image files into PowerPoint (.pptx) presentations at configurable DPI settings. Each PDF page or image becomes a slide, automatically sized and positioned according to user preferences.

The tool supports both interactive and non-interactive (CLI) modes. In interactive mode, prompts guide you through input selection, slide sizing, and image placement options. In CLI mode, sensible defaults are applied for batch processing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIPATH\fR...
Specify one or more input paths. Can be:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
PDF files (.pdf)
.IP \(bu 3
Image files (.png, .jpg, .jpeg, .tiff, .webp, .bmp, .gif, .ico, .heic, .heif)
.IP \(bu 3
Folders containing images
.RE
.IP
If omitted, enters interactive mode.

.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fINAME\fR
Specify custom output filename (with or without .pptx extension).
.B Only valid when processing a single input file.
If not specified, output filename is derived from input filename.

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
When processing folders, recursively process all subfolders.

.TP
.BR \-\-dpi " " \fIDPI\fR
DPI (dots per inch) for PDF rendering. Default: 300.
Higher values produce sharper images but larger files and slower processing.
Recommended range: 150-600.

.TP
.BR \-\-quiet
Suppress interactive prompts and non-critical output. Uses default settings:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Slide size: Detected from first PDF page or image
.IP \(bu 3
Image placement: Fit (no cropping)
.IP \(bu 3
All existing files are skipped unless \fB\-\-force\fR is used
.RE

.TP
.BR \-\-force
Overwrite existing .pptx files without confirmation.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Interactive Mode
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py
.fi
Launches interactive mode with prompts for all options.

.SS Convert Single PDF
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py \-i document.pdf
.fi
Creates \fIdocument.pptx\fR from \fIdocument.pdf\fR with default settings (300 DPI).

.SS Convert with Custom Output Name
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py \-i lecture_notes.pdf \-o slides.pptx
.fi
Creates \fIslides.pptx\fR from \fIlecture_notes.pdf\fR.

.SS Convert at Higher DPI
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py \-i document.pdf \-\-dpi 600
.fi
Creates presentation with high-quality 600 DPI rendering.

.SS Convert Folder of Images
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py \-i ~/Pictures/screenshots/
.fi
Converts all supported images in the folder to a presentation.

.SS Batch Convert Multiple PDFs
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py \-i file1.pdf file2.pdf file3.pdf \-\-quiet \-\-force
.fi
Silently converts all PDFs, overwriting existing output files.

.SS Recursive Folder Processing
.nf
.B python make_ppt.py \-i ~/Documents \-r \-\-quiet
.fi
Processes all PDFs and image folders in ~/Documents and subdirectories.

.SH IMAGE PLACEMENT MODES
.TP
.B Fit (default)
Scale image proportionally to fit entirely within the slide. May show background bars (letterbox/pillarbox) if aspect ratios differ. No cropping occurs.

.TP
.B Fill
Scale image to completely fill the slide with no whitespace. May crop edges if aspect ratios differ. Ensures no background shows.

.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
.SS Input Formats
.TP
.B PDF
Multi-page PDF documents. Each page becomes a slide. Requires \fBpoppler-utils\fR (pdftoppm).

.TP
.B Images
PNG, JPG/JPEG, TIFF, WebP, BMP, GIF, ICO, HEIC, HEIF
.br
All images are converted to slides. HEIC/HEIF require \fBpillow-heif\fR library.

.SS Output Format
.B PowerPoint Open XML (.pptx)
.br
Compatible with Microsoft PowerPoint 2007+, LibreOffice Impress, Google Slides, and other presentation software.

.SH SLIDE SIZES
Interactive mode allows selection from common presentation sizes:
.TP
.B 16:9 (Widescreen)
13.333" × 7.5" - Default for modern displays
.TP
.B 4:3 (Standard)
10.0" × 7.5" - Traditional aspect ratio
.TP
.B Letter
11.0" × 8.5" - US Letter paper size
.TP
.B A4
11.69" × 8.27" - International A4 paper
.TP
.B Legal
14.0" × 8.5" - US Legal paper size
.TP
.B Tabloid
17.0" × 11.0" - Large format

.PP
CLI mode auto-detects slide size from first PDF page or image dimensions.

.SH TEMPORARY FILES
PDF conversion creates temporary PNG files in \fB/tmp/pptx_pdf_*\fR directories.
These are automatically cleaned up after presentation creation.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success - all inputs processed
.TP
.B 1
Error - invalid arguments or processing failure

.SH FILES
.TP
.I requirements.txt
Python dependencies (python-pptx, Pillow, PyMuPDF, pdf2image, pillow-heif)

.TP
.I ~/.cache/
Pillow and other libraries may cache data here

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.SS Required Python Packages
.TP
.B python-pptx
PowerPoint file generation (>= 0.6.21)
.TP
.B Pillow
Image processing (>= 10.0.0)
.TP
.B PyMuPDF (fitz)
PDF metadata reading (>= 1.23.0)
.TP
.B pdf2image
PDF to image conversion (>= 1.16.0)
.TP
.B pillow-heif
HEIC/HEIF image support (>= 0.13.0)

.SS System Dependencies
.TP
.B poppler-utils
Provides \fBpdftoppm\fR command for PDF rendering
.br
Install: \fBapt install poppler-utils\fR (Debian/Ubuntu)
.br
Install: \fBbrew install poppler\fR (macOS)

.SH PERFORMANCE
.TP
.B DPI Impact
Processing time scales quadratically with DPI. A 300 DPI render is ~4x slower than 150 DPI, and ~4x faster than 600 DPI.

.TP
.B File Count
Multi-page PDFs (30+ pages) at 300 DPI may take 30-60 seconds. Consider using 150 DPI for faster processing of large documents.

.TP
.B Memory Usage
Peak memory depends on:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
DPI setting (higher = more RAM)
.IP \(bu 3
Number of simultaneous files
.IP \(bu 3
PDF page dimensions
.RE
.IP
Expect ~100-500 MB for typical workloads.

.SH DOCKER USAGE
A Gradio web interface with Docker Compose is available:

.nf
.B docker compose up -d
.fi

Access at \fBhttp://localhost:7860\fR

See \fBDOCKER.md\fR for details.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: \fBhttps://github.com/sageframe-no-kaji/image_2_ppt-dev/issues\fR

.SH AUTHOR
Andrew T. Marcus (Tyro Sageframe)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2026 Tyro Sageframe. Licensed under the MIT License.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR convert (1)

Full documentation: \fBhttps://github.com/sageframe-no-kaji/image_2_ppt-dev\fR
